# BREAKING NEWS about Beitong (Betop) Kunpeng 70 (BTP-KP70) (B variant) 
Got an Beitong Kunpeng 70 to test. </br>
Next, I found it like its younger brother KP40 has an A/B hardware difference for CN and Intl units. The one on minixpc is probably CN (BTP-KP70A, same as on JD) and literally every KP70 on aliexpress is BTP-KP70B. The "A" uses NearLink and polls at 2000Hz maximum and "B" uses Beitong's proprietary 1000Hz 2.4G while its dongle shows up as 20bc:5160 Shenzhen ShanWan blah blah blah as revealed by lsusb on Linux if successfully connected under some conditions. The Linux on my machine is Arch Linux with 6.18.0 kernel. In addition, the only data available on gamepadla shows firmware version 1.1.9. However, the latest firmware for the "B" variant from their true English software is 1.0.3 for both controller and the dongle. So it proved that user on gamepadla imported an "A" variant and nobody online including me knows what are the real sticks latency and button latency for the "B" variant. I cannot afford to tear the controller apart to test it using PB2. The dongle itself unconnected has an 20dd:5160 as USB VID:PID. I'm not saying either A or B is superior to the other as the AI functionalities according to bilibili testers are more of a gimmick with quirks. My chat with their customer service didn't reveal any difference besides the wireless transmission and AI. </br>
And finally, the ONE OF A KIND behavior across probably any 3rd party non-switch gamepads. </br>
Most of you may know these Chinese gamepads are using Xinput via dongle on Windows and their dongles are recognized as Xbox 360 controller under Linux if it is functional. There are some cases that the gamepad shows up but not functional like in the case of ZD Ultimate Legend whose dongle impersonated Xbox 360 controller but inputs cannot be recognized. The switch mode is usually reserved for bluetooth and wired for actual switch usage, with a polling rate about 125Hz or ~250Hz even wired. </br>
That's WILDLY DIFFERENT from BTP-KP70B. </br>
When connected via its dongle, it was shortly picked up by hid-nintendo, no matter if joycond was active, and recognized as A NINTENDO SWITCH PRO CONTROLLER. </br>
Hardwaretester HTML cannot detect it, but for literally everything else, it can be detected. The joysticks was a bit off in steam, but I used it on ZZZ without steam input kicking in and the buttons, joysticks, triggers functions fine as a "Nintendo Switch Pro Controller" with the usual A/B button swap. Both steam and a yuzu fork instantly recognized ITS GYRO with nothing needed on the controller side. No drifting if stationary. Only missing rumble. </br>
Since then my mind was blown. I've used Flydigi Apex 4, ZD Ultimate Legend, and Bigbigwon Rainbow 3. Their dongles are all picked up by xpad and may or may not work as a Xbox360 controller. But recognized as a Nintendo Switch Pro Controller? Without tweaks and just PnP? Working gyro just missing rumble? </br>
That gave me loads of suspicion about them "not support" Linux as shown from the following excerpt of a chat between me and their customer service. </br>
If Beitong really did absolutely nothing regarding Linux, then the controller should be a finicky Xbox360 Controller via its dongle. </br>
If it is a Nintendo Switch Pro Controller with just ONE STEP from fully featured instead, then I think the odds of Beitong did it deliberately is >99%. </br>
I feel like I am telling a horror story. But anyway, if anybody has the "A" variant, please test its behavior under Linux if you have time to complement my findings.
